packages/lit-css-loader/README.md, before:

# lit-css-loader

Webpack loader to import css files as JavaScript tagged-template literal objects.

> _The "Lit" stands for "Literal"_

You can use it to import CSS for various libraries like `lit-element`, `@microsoft/fast-element`, or others.

## Do I Need This?

No. This is an optional package who's sole purpose is to make it easier to write CSS-in-CSS while working on lit-element projects. You can just as easily write your CSS in some '`styles.css.js`' modules a la:

```js
import { css } from 'lit-element';
export default css`:host { display: block; }`;
```

And this may actually be preferred.

Hopefully this package will become quickly obsolete when the [CSS Modules Proposal](https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/759) (or something like it) is accepted and implemented.

In the mean time, enjoy importing your CSS into your component files.

## Options

| Name        | Accepts                                                                                | Default        |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| `include`   | Array of glob of files to include.                                                     | `['**/*.css']` |
| `exclude`   | Array of glob of files to exclude.                                                     | `undefined`    |
| `uglify`    | Boolean or Object of [uglifycss](https://www.npmjs.com/package/uglifycss#api) options. | `false`        |
| `specifier` | Package to import `css` from                                                           | `lit`          |
| `tag`       | Name of the template-tag function                                                      | `css`          |
| `transform` | Optional function (sync or async) which transforms css sources (e.g. postcss)    | `x => x`       |

## Usage

    npm i -D lit-css-loader

```js
module: {
  rules: [
    {
      test: /\.css$/,
      loader: 'lit-css-loader',
      options: {
        specifier: 'lit-element' // defaults to `lit`
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

```js
import { LitElement, html } from 'lit';
import { customElement } from 'lit/decorators.js';

import style from './styled-el.css';

@customElement('styled-el')
export class extends LitElement {
  static styles = [style]
  render() {
    return html`<p>such style. very win</p>`;
  }
}
```

### Usage with Sass, Less, PostCSS, etc.

To load scss files:

1.  Adjust the `test` clause of the module rule as needed (e.g)
2.  Pass a `transform` function to the loader options

```js
const Sass = require('sass');
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.scss$/,
        loader: 'lit-css-loader',
        options: {
          transform: (data, { filePath }) =>
            Sass.renderSync({ data, file: filePath })
              .css.toString(),
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Similarly, to transform sources using PostCSS, specify a `transform` function:

```js
const postcss = require('postcss');
const postcssNesting = require('postcss-nesting');

const processor = postcss(postcssNesting());

module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.scss$/,
        loader: 'lit-css-loader',
        options: {
          transform: (css, { filePath }) =>
            processor.process(css, { from: filePath })
              .css
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Looking for rollup? [rollup-plugin-lit-css](../rollup-plugin-lit-css)
Looking for esbuild? [esbuild-plugin-lit-css](../esbuild-plugin-lit-css)
Looking for typescript? [typescript-transform-lit-css](../typescript-transform-lit-css)

Commit message:

feat: deprecated uglify in favor of cssnano or cleanCSS (#50)
* feat(typescript-transform): clean css

* fix: *sigh*

* chore: lint

* docs: changeset

* chore: changesets config

packages/lit-css-loader/README.md, after:

# lit-css-loader

Webpack loader to import css files as JavaScript tagged-template literal objects.

> _The "Lit" stands for "Literal"_

You can use it to import CSS for various libraries like `lit-element`, 
`@microsoft/fast-element`, or others.

## Do I Need This?

No. This is an optional package who's sole purpose is to make it easier to write 
CSS-in-CSS while working on lit-element projects. You can just as easily write 
your CSS in some '`styles.css.js`' modules a la:

```js
import { css } from 'lit-element';
export default css`:host { display: block; }`;
```

And this may actually be preferred.

Hopefully this package will become quickly obsolete when the [CSS Modules 
Proposal][modulesprop] (or something like it) is accepted and implemented.

In the mean time, enjoy importing your CSS into your component files.

## Options

| Name                                   | Accepts                                                                       | Default        |
| -------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| `include`                              | Array of glob of files to include.                                            | `['**/*.css']` |
| `exclude`                              | Array of glob of files to exclude.                                            | `undefined`    |
| `uglify` (**deprecated**: use cssnano) | Boolean or Object of [uglifycss][uglifyopts] options.                         | `false`        |
| `cssnano`                              | Boolean or Object of [cssnano][nanoopts] options.                             | `false`        |
| `specifier`                            | Package to import `css` from                                                  | `lit`          |
| `tag`                                  | Name of the template-tag function                                             | `css`          |
| `transform`                            | Optional function (sync or async) which transforms css sources (e.g. postcss) | `x => x`       |

## Usage

    npm i -D lit-css-loader

```js
module: {
  rules: [
    {
      test: /\.css$/,
      loader: 'lit-css-loader',
      options: {
        specifier: 'lit-element' // defaults to `lit`
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

```js
import { LitElement, html } from 'lit';
import { customElement } from 'lit/decorators.js';

import style from './styled-el.css';

@customElement('styled-el')
export class extends LitElement {
  static styles = [style]
  render() {
    return html`<p>such style. very win</p>`;
  }
}
```

### Usage with Sass, Less, PostCSS, etc.

To load scss files:

1.  Adjust the `test` clause of the module rule as needed (e.g)
2.  Pass a `transform` function to the loader options

```js
const Sass = require('sass');
module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.scss$/,
        loader: 'lit-css-loader',
        options: {
          transform: (data, { filePath }) =>
            Sass.renderSync({ data, file: filePath })
              .css.toString(),
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Similarly, to transform sources using PostCSS, specify a `transform` function:

```js
const postcss = require('postcss');
const postcssNesting = require('postcss-nesting');

const processor = postcss(postcssNesting());

module.exports = {
  module: {
    rules: [
      {
        test: /\.scss$/,
        loader: 'lit-css-loader',
        options: {
          transform: (css, { filePath }) =>
            processor.process(css, { from: filePath })
              .css
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Looking for rollup? [rollup-plugin-lit-css](../rollup-plugin-lit-css)
Looking for esbuild? [esbuild-plugin-lit-css](../esbuild-plugin-lit-css)
Looking for typescript? [typescript-transform-lit-css](../typescript-transform-lit-css)

[wds]: https://modern-web.dev/docs/dev-server/
[modulesprop]: https://github.com/w3c/webcomponents/issues/759
[uglifyopts]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/uglifycss#api
[nanoopts]: https://cssnano.co/docs/config-file/#configuration-options
